Hello and welcome to the course on
Tableau I'm so glad to see inside we're
going to have heaps of fun along the way
and I promise you that you will learn a
ton and in this short tutorial what I
wanted to do is give you a quick
overview of what tablet is and what it's
used for
and then we will go through this section
of the course and i will show you what
to expect in each section so you can
navigate your way through the course
much easier so let's jump straight into
it
Tableau is a very simple yet powerful
tool for everything to do with data the
company's mission is to help people see
and understand data and as you can see
here
Tableau is a completely drag-and-drop
software and using Tableau you can
create visuals sometimes 10 times faster
than you would have created them in
other programs and overall Tableau is a
new and innovative approach to business
intelligence. In terms of structure the
course has a spiral structure and what
that means is that with every new
section you move up a level in the
spiral learning new skills and
techniques while still repeating and
cementing in the older ones that you
picked up earlier and so let's have a
look and see what we have here. In the
first section that's the one we're in
right now you will install Tableau and
then already in lecture three you will see
how you can create a powerful visual and
moreover you will created in under five
minutes and it's the same visual would
have taken hours to create using other
tools then in section 2 we will talk
about the basics of Tableau so I will show
you how to connect to different data
sources we will navigate Tableau we will
learn how to create calculated field so
it's an important topic and I
specifically included it early on in the
course so that we can play around of
calculated fields along the way as we
learn new techniques will talk about
colors formatting and exporting your
results so all the basics will be
covered off in this first section after
that you can already start applying
Tableau start applying the basic level
of Tableau in your work if you require
to do so. Then in section 3 we will go
into a bit more depth will start talking
about time series which is an important
part of working with Tableau so
visualizing trends
and how things change over time we will
talk about filters but most important in
this section we will talk about
aggregation. Aggregation and granularity
so it's this lecture over here and
there you will see how Tableau operates
and what concepts are behind the tool
what's happening in the background when
you're dragging and dropping things into
the charts it's important lecture
because it's important to understand how
the tool works to take full advantage of
it going forward. Next in section 4 you
will already create your first dashboard
that is how quickly we will get our first
dashboard. So we will create maps a map
will create a scatter plot and then we
will combine them into a powerful
dashboard depicting sales of a certain
store and also we will add interaction
interactivity to our dashboard so we'll
add an action which the filter and
highlighting and you will also see the
difference between filtering and
highlighting. Then in section 5 we will
kind of take a step to the side and we
will talk about joining and blending so
I will give you a full introduction into
what joining is so left, right, inner,
outer joins what happens when joins would have
duplicate values and what happens when
you're joining in multiple field so I do
understand that perhaps you are not
coming from an SQL background you might
not know everything about joins so
that's why we covered off in the first
three lectures and then now we will talk
about data blending in Tableau and
finally a lot of people are after this
topic what is the difference between
joining and blending data and went to
use what we will definitely cover that
off so you are a pro in knowing when to
use a join and when to use a blend. Also in this
section we'll cover of a dual-axis
chart which is important and will have
an advanced topic here creating
calculated fields in a blend so I've
included it here you don't have to do it
if you feel that you're not ready you
don't really need this information but
whenever you do see that you need this
specific skill in Tableau you can always
come back to the course and watch this
lecture again. Then after that we move on
to the big guns we're talking here about
creating
a customer segmentation dashboard where
introducing lots of new skills like
table calculations, creating beans, using
parameters, set in
geographical roles at the same time
we're creating lots and lots of new
charts and then we're putting them all
into a segmentation dashboard which will
be very powerful then we will analyze
this dashboard and you'll see how
businesses can take advantage of this
and service the customers better by
looking at data and then we will create
a storyline so storylines a new feature
that was introduced in tableau 8.2 and
here you will learn how to take full
advantage of it and present to your audience
in the best possible way. And finally at
the end of the course we will talk about
advanced data preparations this is
kind of a bonus section that I've thrown
into this course because data
preparation is important and in Tableau 9
there were a lot of new features
were introduced that allow you to
simplify the process of data cleaning
and preparation for your analysis.
So definitely an advanced section or
moreover important section because this
is something that has to be done every
single time but it will get you going
through your analysis much faster and
then in section 8 we will talk about the
new additions in Tableau 10 so here
we're going to have a brand new
challenge is going to be a start-up
expansion analytics challenge where
we're going to be helping a startup
company solve some analytics problems that
they're facing. Then we will learn
the three main new additions in Tableau 10
and that is the custom territories,
the clustering analytics in Tableau and
a cross database join. So we will learn
two ways to perform custom territories and
that's why groups and why geographic
roles and then we will talk more about
these two new features and specifically
will devote a lot of time and attention
to clustering in Tableau because that is a
ultra powerful feature that was
introduced in Tableau 10. Also we will
talk about other features that were
introduced such as a highlighter then
the some new design features and some
new mobile features and all in all in
this section we'll solve a very fun and
exciting
business challenge for this startup. So
that's how the course is structured hope
you're excited and I look forward to
seeing you next time
until then happy analyzing.